## Introduction
Python is one of the most popular coding languages across the globe. Python is often used as a core language for financial projects. There are a lot of powerful libraries built with Python. Most of these libraries are extremely useful when it comes to data handling and data manipulation. Libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib can handle large amount of data and help simplify the process by visualizing all that data and allowing to conduct statistical calculations based on it.

## Dataset
As I wanted to analyze the consolidated data of S&P 500 stocks over the years, I utilized the all_stocks_5yr.csv file generated by [Cam Nugent](https://github.com/CNuge), hosted at keggle.com in [S&P 500 stock data](https://www.kaggle.com/camnugent/sandp500) project. 

### Data Format
Out of different data formats provided by at keggle.com, all_stocks_5yr.csv contains consolidated stocks data, presented in a merged .csv file. ALl Dates are in format: yy-mm-dd

- Open - price of the stock at market open (this is NYSE data so all in USD).
- High - Highest price reached in the day.
- Low Close - Lowest price reached in the day.
- Volume - Number of shares traded.
- Name - the stock's ticker name.

At the time of analysis, dataset contained S&P 500 stock data from Jan 2013 - Feb 2018. 

## Best and worst performing stocks - 2017

To analyze the best and worst performing stocks of 2017, I followed below listed steps
- Filter the whole dataset for 2017 stocks data 
- Group the filtered dataset by stocks names and extract the minumum and maximum dates for each stocks 
- Join the filtered dataset with minimum and maximum dates dataset
- Extract First day opening price and last day closing price for each stock
- Calculate yearly return by below equation

(closing price on the last day of 2017 - opening price on the first day of 2017)/opening proce of the first day of 2017 * 100 %

## Best performing days of last five years (2013-2018)

## Most volatile stocks of 2017

## Conclusion
